---
title: Terra Omnia - Drauradweg on my recumbent snakebike
summary: On the road with a recumbent in Slovenia and Austria. Trip report.
date: 2025-01-02
draft: false
---
I had been planning for a while to visit Jenny and Steve, the founding members of the band [Omnia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J56VVtlZCGE) who no longer perform on stage because they have retired from the world to a mountainside house they call Terra Omnia in Slovenia. I thought of it as a kind of pilgrimage, I wanted to thank them for the music they gave to the world, and which helped me a lot. I found their address on the internet, and the plan eventually became to check out also the Drauradweg in Austria. I even downloaded the [route](https://www.biroto.eu/de/radweg/europa/drau-radweg/rt00000071) to my phone. I thought that the accommodations would work out spontaneously, so I brought my hammock with me.
#### Sunday, 4 August 2024: The packaging (cancelled)
There were still a few important things missing, like buying a cord and carabiner for the mosquito net. I learned how to do the [hangman's knot](https://www.101knots.com/hangmans-knot-noose.html) to attach the carabiner. But in the meantime, I got a phone call from my dad, after which I just sat at home and didn't have the energy to pack. The whole day went by like this. But at least I wrote a list of things to pack.
#### Monday, 5 August 2024: The departure
I packed diligently in the morning, so I set off at noon. I missed the train in Rákoscsaba, so I cycled to the Déli Railway Station and bought a ticket to Nagykanizsa. That's when I realized that I hadn't put lights on my bike. It turned out that this was the only thing I had forgotten on my list, and I'm proud of that. I arrived in Kanizsa around 7:30 in the evening and set off towards Murakeresztúr on the cycle path. I thought I would sleep in my hammock somewhere near the border. But in the meantime, it got dark, and the cycle path suddenly ended at Miklósfa. Since I didn't have lights, I didn't dare to use road, and it also started to rain. I took refuge at a bus stop and there I wondered what to do. My first thought was to stretch out the hammock at the stop and take a nap until morning. But I didn't dare to do so, I was too anxious about someone maybe talking to me. Finally, I called a dear friend of mine in Kanizsa and asked if I could stay with them for the night. As soon as the rain stopped, I went back there. We had a good chat and then I slept well.
#### Tuesday, August 6, 2024: Heading to Maribor
The next morning we woke up to beautiful weather. I had a hearty breakfast and set off again for Murakeresztúr. Here, talking to the locals, it turned out that I could cross the railway bridge into Croatia, but it would be difficult on the dirt road soaked in the rain. That's why I then headed towards Letenye. I didn't regret it, it turned out to be a very nice section, a calm, pleasant country road. In Letenye I then crossed the border over the [bridge over the Mura](/files/IMG_20240806_100942.jpg) . I headed straight towards the Drava Bike route. In the village of Čakovec, I found a great little bicycle shop, where I bought a pretty good [set of lights](https://prodaja-bicikla.com/webshop/oprema/svijetla-i-bljeskalice/setovi/svjetlo-force-set-usb-dot-prvo-i-zadnje/) for €34, which were already charged, and they lasted several dark evenings without charging. Soon I reached the [Drava](/files/IMG_20240806_114219.jpg) . The river was dammed in many places, so [beautiful lakes](/files/IMG_20240806_130508.jpg) formed, like Lake Tisza in our country. From there, I rode the Drava Bike route all the way to Maribor. I had read about the Drauradweg before, and I honestly thought it was a bicycle path. Well, as for the Croatian and Slovenian sections, they took us on country roads in some places, where cheerful trucks would overtake us, or on gravel roads with pebbles as big as my fist. Well, there were some [nicely built](/files/IMG_20240806_151331.jpg) sections too. I must say that I have good experiences with the Croatian and Slovenian drivers, not only did they pay attention to the side distance, but most of them also slowed down before overtaking, because they know how unpleasant the wind caused by trucks is for cyclists. So, it was actually possible to proceed, and after crossing the [Croatian-Slovenian border](/files/IMG_20240806_143539.jpg), the [Pesnica](/files/IMG_20240806_162725.jpg), and a [canal](/files/IMG_20240806_163450.jpg), I arrived to [Maribor](/files/IMG_20240806_212211.jpg) after dark. The downloaded route also contains hotel addresses, which is how I found the [Hotel Orel](https://hotel.hotel-orel.si/en/). They surprised me with a lockable bike storage room and cheap prices, so I stayed there for one night for 40€. After riding 180 km that day in the scorching sun, I was really looking forward to a shower. I also got a little burned where I didn't apply sunscreen properly.
#### Wednesday 2024-08-07: Lakes and along the Savinja
I woke up fresh in the hotel in the morning and when I saw what a great buffet breakfast they offered, I immediately paid €15 for it and ate a lot. I had already done this trick before, having a hearty breakfast that lasted until the evening, I didn't even need to have lunch. I planned the route and [set off from the main square](/files/IMG_20240807_104623.jpg) . I took a [nice picture](/files/IMG_20240807_113429.jpg) of Maribor and found the nearest Lidl to buy my daily dose of orange juice and a Gouda cheese (which lasted until the end of the trip, by the way). The orange juice fit nicely in the rolled-up sleeping pad, and it stayed pleasantly cool until the evening. Since I had run out of sunscreen, I also got a factor 50 and applied it thoroughly. So I didn't have to worry about sunburn anymore, and rightly so, I did that every morning and didn't get sunburned at all, even though I was riding in the scorching sun all week. I was riding through a [hilly landscape](/files/IMG_20240807_142136.jpg) and excitedly watched the [mountains approach](/files/IMG_20240807_162558.jpg), and with them my favorites, the [mountain streams](/files/IMG_20240807_162701.jpg) . In many places, the Slovenians spoiled me with great bike paths, for example, there is a nature reserve, Tavčarjev slap, cycling there [was an experience](/files/IMG_20240807_172757.jpg) (also). It was already late afternoon when I reached Velenje, where the [beach of a clear lake](/files/IMG_20240807_181046.jpg), Velenjsko jezero, tempted me to take a splash. The water was nice and cold, and very deep. But the cool bath was very nice. Continuing from there, I was soon passing [by the Savinja](/files/IMG_20240807_194106.jpg) . I stopped at one place to check on my phone whether I was going in the right direction, and then LineageOS rebooted. It used to do this, unfortunately, but this time it affected me badly because I thought I had lost the gpx recording of that day's route. But, to my relief, when I started the [GPSLogger](http://gpslogger.app/) app again, it picked up where it left off, as if nothing had happened. I was now in campsite search mode. So, when I saw a sign in Nazarje that said [Kamp Savinja](https://www.camp-savinja.com/) and an arrow, I followed the directions without hesitation. I arrived at a huge campsite, with luxury caravans and tents lined up for hundreds of meters. The campsite was completely full, and the reception was already closed. The weather forecast said rain was coming, so I wanted to get my accommodation as soon as possible. I thought I would check in at the reception in the morning (which I didn’t do and left without paying). I found a secluded spot [on the edge of the campsite](/files/IMG_20240807_203554.jpg) and set up my tarp and hammock between two trees. I walked a little more, because the Savinja [was so beautiful](/files/IMG_20240808_080641.jpg). The distant thunder filled me with some concern, and rightly so: two hours later a storm hit us so hard that I was very worried that the wind would tear out the peg securing the tarp. I planned that if that happened, I would hold the tarp on my side with my hand until the wind let up. But the peg held, only a little spray of water occasionally hit my face, but after half an hour all I could hear was the pleasant pounding of the shower above me, which lulled me nicely to sleep.
#### Thursday, 8 August 2024: Terra Omnia, Logarska Dolina
When I woke up in the morning, the world was [a bit wet](/files/IMG_20240808_082443.jpg), but the storm passed and the sun soon came out. That's when one of the most bitter surprises of the trip came: it turned out that the saddlebag was not waterproof at all, so all my clothes were soaked. I didn't have the opportunity to spread them out in the sun now, since the entire landscape was still wet, so I headed [towards](/files/IMG_20240808_114735.jpg) Terra Omnia. Leaving Savinja, the road soon turned into gravel, which took me up the serpentine road more and more steeply. The Black Panther is completely unsuitable for such a road, so I had no choice but to push it up. Terra Omnia is located at an altitude of about 800 meters, so it was a nice walk, but I didn't mind, I was getting more and more excited to go up. I got there a little after noon. I planned my entrance in advance, and when their house was in sight and I heard them laughing at something, I stopped and sang at the top of my lungs, _[Hoka Hey, Hoka Hey Hey Hey!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T_QnQf1djNM&t=88s)_ Well, they were very surprised by me, Steve came down from the terrace where they were resting and waited for me curiously. I bowed my head, a little awkwardly started to explain that “ _I'm a pilgrim and I came to say thanks for the music you made_ ”. I didn't know what kind of reception I could expect, and I was very touched by their kindness. They really are world-famous musicians, and yet they were completely [nice](/files/IMG_20240808_144907.jpg) to me, even though they also had guests at the time. It turned out that [Daphyd](https://daphyd.wixsite.com/daphydsens) was also there, he even played a little on the _didgeridoo_ for me . We had a nice chat, and when I mentioned the storm and my soaked clothes, Jenny offered me their clothes dryer. I didn't stay long, I said goodbye, they were also getting ready to go somewhere with their guests. Jenny suggested a place that she thought would be worth visiting, so I headed towards Logarska Dolina. Well, here I was starting to get into the rougher mountains, unfortunately I didn’t take any photos of the gorge the road went through, but then when I got to my destination I took a [few](/files/IMG_20240808_183753.jpg) [pictures](/files/IMG_20240808_182239.jpg) … well, I arrived at some pretty place. However, I couldn’t find a place to camp, and hotels seemed like a must, so I went into a few to ask how much I could get a room for. Well, they were quite expensive, so I was hanging out a bit bewildered not far from some people at a table. They heard I was looking for accommodation, and a nice lady approached me to ask if a barn that was being renovated would be a good idea, where she could offer a bed and a shower. It turned out that she was the owner of [one of the hotels](https://www.logarska-dolina.si/en/accommodation/hotels-and-guesthouses/eco-house-na-razpotju), and one of her projects was to convert the old barn there into rooms with [straw](/files/1182045673032576.jpg) beds. I accepted the offer and [moved in.](/files/474784828679089.jpg) for 40€, which included breakfast. The straw beds were in the next room and they smelled so nice that I left all the doors open. The fresh mountain night air flowed in from the left, and the smell of straw and wood from the right. It was a wonderful night!
#### Friday, 09/08/2024: Rinka Waterfall - Drauradweg
In the morning I had another big breakfast and chatted with my host, who is called Andrea. He also told me a little about the downsides of mountain life: two years ago there was a disaster in Slovenia, landslides occurred due to the heavy rain and huge rocks fell down towards the valley. This still happens now, and there is a fear that they will roll all the way to the village, so the rolled rocks are loaded onto trucks with a crane and transported away, huge trucks come and go constantly, every day. I set off to see the Rinka waterfall. On the way there, trucks came every minute, but I didn't mind because I understood the reason. I politely pulled off the road if we couldn't fit. The road soon ended, I locked my bike in the parking lot and walked up to the waterfall. [I didn't regret it](/files/IMG_20240809_110110.jpg), I've never seen anything like it before, a hundred-meter waterfall, from which the water falls freely for almost 80 meters. By the way, this is also the "source" of the Savinja. I took a good sip of the [water](/files/IMG_20240809_111845.jpg), it was completely clean. I spent at least an hour here, I was so impressed by the [view](/files/IMG_20240809_110422.jpg) and the atmosphere. After returning to my accommodation, I packed up and, on Andrea's advice, I set off towards a plateau with a beautiful view of the valley. Well, here the inadequacy of the snake bike really showed, on a 10% slope the driven front wheel spun, so I had to push for quite a few sections. I was so absorbed in the walk that I lost the way and left a clearing, heading towards Austria. When I noticed the mistake, I hesitated a bit about turning back, but finally decided to continue my journey towards Austria, since the Drauradweg was my destination. I regretted this decision a little later, after [looking at](https://maps.app.goo.gl/nDHagnrTrBYjGsg67) what [I had missed](https://maps.app.goo.gl/RyApkjZEa3jLKAZA9) . From there, I pushed the bike continuously on 12% gradients, all the way to the Austrian border at an altitude of 1400 m. The consolation was that I pushed it on excellent quality, smooth asphalt, and I expected that it would be the same on the way down, and then I could go down in a let-my-hair-down style. Well, I was wrong. When I reached the [border](/files/IMG_20240809_153255.jpg), in Austria, the quality changed, and I had to descend on a bumpy, unpaved road. I was afraid that the brakes would wear out by the time I got down, so I stopped twice to let the brake disc cool down, because it had gotten hot. Halfway down the descent, the front brake started to stick, it wouldn't release when I braked harder, I had to flick my foot to release it. Let's just say [I couldn't complain](/files/IMG_20240809_155507.jpg) about the [view](/files/IMG_20240809_154612.jpg) at all . After I got down from the mountain, the Austrians spoiled me with such super-quality bike paths that I completely [melted](/files/IMG_20240809_170514.jpg). By 6 pm I reached the Drauradweg, on the banks of the Drava. Here again I had to [take](/files/IMG_20240809_182654.jpg) a [lot](/files/IMG_20240809_183530.jpg) of [photos](/files/IMG_20240809_184748.jpg) [because](/files/IMG_20240809_191200.jpg) it [was](/files/IMG_20240809_192146.jpg) so [beautiful](/files/IMG_20240809_193713.jpg). The Austrian section of the Drauradweg is a really pleasant tour, because goes slightly downhill following the flow of the Drava, with only a few steeper climbs interrupting the meandering. The road is gravel in places, but this is not really a problem. The point is that there is not a single car anywhere, just silence and beautiful scenery. In the evening [twilight](/files/IMG_20240809_205055_NR.jpg) I had dinner (gouda cheese and orange juice), and then I started looking for a campsite. It was already dark, I was near Kleindiex, when I noticed a forest at the road. On a wider grassy slope, I pushed the bike up to the trees and looked for a suitable place for my hammock. This section happens to be a part shared with cars, but I hardly encountered them during the day. But now that I was standing there in the dark with my illuminated bike by the trees, a driver noticed me and drove his car up the grassy slope to me and asked me quite belligerently what was going on here. I told him honestly that I was looking for a place for my hammock to sleep. To this he replied a little more mildly that it was a private forest. I thanked him for warning me and said that of course I would go on. By now our man had completely relented, he said that I could sleep there without any worries, but he suggested another, in his opinion much better place, a few hundred meters away. He was right, I really did find [comfortable accommodation](/files/IMG_20240810_065728_NR.jpg), hiding from everyone. It was a calm, warm night, and also the wet tarp was dry by morning.
#### Saturday, August 10, 2024: Back to Maribor
I set up camp relatively early in the morning, and set off. It was [a spectacular](/files/IMG_20240810_081700.jpg), [foggy](/files/IMG_20240810_081224_NR.jpg) [morning](/files/IMG_20240810_082557.jpg). I enjoyed the Drauradweg so much that I decided to ride to Maribor that day, after all, it was only 100 km. I found a [grocery store](https://maps.app.goo.gl/z8puTPJw5MH413UW6) in the village of Neuhaus, where I stopped to buy orange juice and breakfast. The lady was very kind, she offered me some homemade yogurt. I bought one and sat in front of the store in the shade at a small table on the bench. That yogurt has been one of my most beautiful memories of the trip ever since, it was so delicious. At Lavamünd, I admired how the Lavant River flows into the Drava, spectacularly [not mixing](/files/IMG_20240810_094749.jpg) with it. Not long after, I stopped again in a secluded place to finally dry my still slightly damp clothes, the whole thing was smelling quite a bit. [I spread out the dry tarp](/files/IMG_20240810_102039.jpg) and everything heated up in the sun, while I rested in the shade and tried to set up internet on my phone, because I didn't have an internet connection in Austria. Roaming worked, I could make calls, but in Carinthia there was only 3G sometimes, while in Croatia and Slovenia I had full 4G at my disposal. What a backward place I had found myself in! An hour later I collected my now perfectly dry, odorless clothes and belongings and set off, very satisfied. I soon reached the border. However, my satisfaction evaporated very quickly after Dravograd. For some mysterious reason, the Drava Bike route was taken up into the mountains, with brutal, gravelly climbs and crazy potholed descents. The landscape was undeniably very beautiful, but my constant swearing made it impossible to see it for me. To be honest, I didn't expect this. Plus, it's quite demoralizing to see the Drava River from the mountain, and to watch the cars speeding along the smooth asphalt on the other side, right on the riverbank. Why couldn't they build a bike lane there? It reminded me of BuBa, but even there at least the road quality is good. Here, you can also worry about when you'll be hit by another landslide, which [I've seen](/files/IMG_20240810_123751.jpg) [an example](/files/IMG_20240810_123805.jpg) of. The sticking brake was also quite annoying. Of course, this section has its advantages, one of the biggest being the shade of the forest, but the [fresh water](/files/IMG_20240810_145214.jpg) from the mountain stream was not to be despised either. But, after a lot of pushing uphill, a few falls down on gravel, I somehow got over that too, and then as I approached Maribor, there were some bike paths that could be ridden. I arrived in Maribor at four in the evening, quite exhausted, very tired. I headed straight for Hotel Orel, navigating the streets of Maribor like a familiar person. Another unpleasant surprise awaited me at the hotel: all the rooms were sold out, since it was the weekend. I was very tired, I think it was obvious, so the receptionist found me a room, which they cancelled. Well, but it was 80€. I didn't have the strength to look for other accommodation, so I accepted. This is what happens to those who don't plan their trip well enough. So I spent my last evening in luxurious conditions, took a shower, walked around the city a bit, bought the orange juice for the next day, and listened to the street jazz musicians. There's no denying it, I slept pretty well in the comfortable bed.
#### Sunday, August 11, 2024: Home by train
The next morning I didn't rush anywhere, I had another huge breakfast, packed up comfortably, and rolled to the train station. I bought a ticket to Budapest for €47. The train left in an hour, I only had to change trains in one place, I had half an hour to do that, and then I sat down in the bike storage on the Hungarian train, because I hate air conditioning so much that I preferred to stay where it was warm but the air was moving. We stopped at the border, I looked for water. I asked the train conductor where I could find drinking water. He said it was only in the bathroom, but he wasn't sure if it was drinking water, but told me to wait, he would come soon. He gave me two bottles of mineral water for free! That was really nice. I even gave one of the bottles to another cyclist. As we drove into Hungary, accumulating more and more delays, collecting more and more people boarding, I heard that the air conditioning was broken, people were boiling in their sweat, more and more people were gathering where I was. I didn't mind, we chatted with foreign students, hikers, whoever. One of the students sat on the ground, leaned against my bike. I didn't mind that either, what could be wrong with the bike. Well, when we got off, I noticed that the front wheel was hard to turn and was making a grinding sound. I wondered, was the brake completely stuck, or did the guy bend the brake disc? I tried to loosen the brake shoes more with the adjustment knob so that it didn't touch the disc. Nothing. Then I realized with great difficulty that he had only bent the mudguard rod, and it was sticking to the tire. I just had to straighten it out and the wheel turned freely. Moreover, by adjusting the front brake, the sticking stopped, so I returned home from Kelenföld with a perfectly functioning bike.
#### Recumbent bike experiences
- This is the first time I've used SPD on a longer route. Without them, I don't think I could have done it all the way, the climbs are much, much easier to overcome with these, because you can also pull the pedal. I can also accelerate better. I'm increasingly proud that two years ago, without SPD, with the same size pack, with this snakebike, I climbed Kékestető.
- It's important to have SPDs on the pedal that release stably. Mine is a cheaper version, and it happened very often that the mechanism still got stuck in my shoe after releasing. I fell on the road at least four times because of this, luckily I was always stopped at the time, and you don't fall much from a recumbent, you're much closer to the ground.
- The swing-nose snakebike is completely unsuitable for more serious or gravelly climbs. I was able to complete a 10% climb in the short term, but only by pedaling carefully, slowly, and evenly, which is extremely tiring, since I can't use my strongest muscle, because as soon as I pedaled with it, the wheel immediately spun. You could feel that I was constantly wearing out the tires. I tried the 12% once, and later I immediately got off and pushed.
- A lot depends on the geometry of the bike. The greater the angle between the body and the forward leg, i.e. the more I pedal from the hips down and not sitting, pushing forward, the more force I can exert (for anatomical reasons) and the less strain I put on my knees. I feel this from the fact that I can push the SPD by hanging my foot from the pedal and the center of gravity of the push is lower. This does tighten my foot a little, but you can feel how I can better engage the glutes, which helps a lot.
#### PS
I traveled almost 600 km's by bike and on foot. It was a wonderful journey. I had many beautiful experiences. However, I secretly hoped for some kind of catharsis at least at the end. This did not happen, I don’t know why, despite the journey, the physical fatigue and the challenges. In any case, it was a big step forward that I dared to do it, to be just myself and only care about myself. On Monday morning, work was waiting for me, and I sadly realized that I was filled with the same anxiety as before. The same terror took over me when I was faced with some kind of demand as before. However, I understood that I like this kind of traveling life much more than the one I am doing now. While I was talking to Jenny, I noticed that she was still working on her herbs to hang them out to dry. I noted that this kind of lifestyle involves a lot of work. Jenny replied: "*this is play for me*". Maybe I will change my life.